Call for Papers 

ACM Multimedia Workshop on 
Surreal Media and Virtual Cloning (SMVC) 
29 October 2010, Firenze, Italy 


Recent scientific advances in a variety of research fields are resulting 
in mature virtual reality technologies and systems to support real-time 
realistic interaction between humans in online virtual environments. Such 
systems aim at enabling collaboration between 3D objects and content 
captured and streamed in real-time to cooperative immersive 3D worlds. 
Low-latency interactivity requires accurate and time-critical information 
exchange between remote places to reduce cognitive workload, and enhance 
situation awareness. Surreal media encompasses realistic 3D virtual 
objects, virtual human clones, live media streams and 3D computer 
generated worlds. It brings a new range of 3D virtual experiences to many 
different everyday aspects of life. It also brings together, for a 
purpose, what can be disparate research groups working on several fields 
including: 3D video processing, real-time 3D media coding, computer 
graphics, human-computer interaction and human factors. 

This workshop aims to present and discuss key research issues related to 
the generation of surreal media and 3D cooperative virtual worlds. Key 
questions to be addressed in the workshop include: How can virtual worlds 
be coupled with live data streams? How can surreal media be scaled up 
from single users to groups, communities or even globally networked 
environments? How can human performance be evaluated in terms of levels of 
expertise, strategies, and cognitive processes within the context of 
specific scenarios? How can security and privacy be enhanced in such 
systems? How can real-time interaction over heterogeneous network 
environments such as the Internet be achieved? 

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to: 

- Creation of realistic virtual human clones 
- Virtual worlds with live data 
- High-definition virtual reality 
- Multi-camera view calibration 
- 3D model reconstruction 
- Scalable coding and streaming of 3D media 
- Multimodal interfaces 
- Mobile platforms for virtual reality 
- Human performance in virtual world 
- Quality of experience issues 
- Security in surreal media 
- Privacy in surreal media 
- Aesthetic design for surrealism 
- Situation-aware interfaces 
- Scene understanding 
- Real-time interactivity 
- Cognitive models of user behaviors 
- Assisted techniques 
- Human-computer interaction models 
- Sensory fusion 
- User biometrics 
- Online media 
- 3D object detection and retrieval 
- 3D graphics applications 

Paper Submissions: 

Prospective authors are invited to submit papers (4 pages) following the 
style guidelines of ACMMM10 regular papers, using the EDAS system in the 
track for this workshop at the conference website http://www.acmmm10.org/. 
Accepted papers will be published in the Conference Proceedings. 

Submission of full papers (to be received by): 10 June, 2010 
Notification of acceptance: 10 July, 2010 
Submission of camera-ready papers: 20 July, 2010 


Workshop Venue: 

The workshop on Surreal Media and Virtual 3D Objects will be collocated 
with ACM MM’10 conference at Palazzo dei Congressi, Piazza Adua 1, 
Firenze, Italy on 25~29 October 2010. For further information: 
http://acmmm10-smvc.qmul.net/; http://www.acmmm10.org/ 


Workshop Organization: 

General Chairs: 

Ebroul Izquierdo 
Queen Mary, University of London, UK 

Yang Cai, 
Carnegie Mellon University, USA 


Program Committee: 

Xavier Alamán, 
UAM, Spain 

Tamy Boubekeur, 
Institut Telecom, France 

Petros Daras 
Informatics & Telematics Institute, Greece 

Peter Eisert 
Heinrich Hertz Institute, Fraunhofer, Germany 

Manuel García-Herranz del Olmo, 
UAM, Spain 

Frederic Fol Leymarie, 
University of London, UK, 

Aggelos K. Katsaggelos, 
Northwestern University, USA 

Yvonne R. Masakowski, 
NAVY, USA 

Noel O’Connor 
Dublin City University, Ireland 

Dimitris Protopsaltou 
MIRALab, University of Geneva, Switzerland 

Gaël Richard 
Télécom ParisTech, France 

Todd Waist, 
CERT, USA, 

Brenda Wiederhold, 
IMC, Belgium, 


European Commission: 

Isidro Laso Ballesteros 
D.G. Information Society and Media 


Organization Committee: 

Qianni Zhang 
Anil Aksay 
Karthike Vaiapury 
Queen Mary, University of London, UK 

Samantha Stevick 
Yingzhen Yang 
Carnegie Mellon University, USA 

Webmaster: 

Vlado Kitanovski 
Queen Mary, University of London, UK 